---
title: 2012 Python Meme
permalink: http://douglatornell.ca/blog/2011/12/30/2012-python-meme
date: 2011/12/30 14:49:46
categories: python
guid: b'wPnO6TzQFuugJbwepxKZ8ml-xjI='
---

Following `Tarek Ziade's lead`_:

.. _Tarek Ziade's lead: http://tarekziade.wordpress.com/2011/12/20/new-years-python-meme-2/

1. **What’s the coolest Python application, framework or library you
   have discovered in 2011?**

   It's a toss-up between Pyramid_ and requests_.

   .. _Pyramid: http://docs.pylonsproject.org/en/latest/docs/pyramid.html
   .. _requests: http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/index.html

   For the admittedly small, specialized application that I've used
   Pyramid for, I like how the framework interface is largely confined
   to the ``__init__.py`` module. Outside of that I find myself just
   writing Python code to get stuff done and throwing in a few
   decorators here and there to link into the framework. I find the
   Pyramid docs to be really well organized, informative, and
   complete. They worked for me at the introductory level (though I
   did arrive with quite a bit of experience of other Python web
   frameworks) and continue to work as I dig deeper and do more
   advanced things.

   Requests has made my life so much better in several projects,
   whether its collecting data from well structured web services or
   scraping hydrometric data from a particularly annoying Government
   of Canada site.


2. **What new programming technique did you learn in 2011?**

   I got a lot better at writing simple, clean, uncoupled unit tests,
   inspired in large part by the `Pyramid unit testing guidelines`_. I
   shifted from being a skeptic to a proponent of mocking thanks to
   the mock_ library. I was spurred in that by the need to refactor a
   test suite that had become way too slow to be useful.

   .. _Pyramid unit testing guidelines: http://docs.pylonsproject.org/en/latest/community/testing.html
   .. _mock: http://www.voidspace.org.uk/python/mock/

   I also got a lot more proficient in JavaScript, using it for
   client-side stuff in web apps, database views for CouchDB, and a
   Firefox add-on.


3. **What’s the name of the open source project you contributed the
   most in 2011? What did you do?**

   CouchDBkit_. I spent most of my time at the PyCon 2011 sprints
   adding the ``SetProperty`` and ``LazySet`` class to store Python
   sets as lists of unique elements in CouchDB. I also added some
   missing Python list methods to the ``LazyList`` class. It was a
   good learning experience in the realm of subclassing Python
   builtins. It was also cool to work sitting beside `@benoitc`_ (the
   CouchDBkit lead developer) in contrast to communicating
   electronically across 9 time zones.

   .. _CouchDBkit: http://couchdbkit.org/
   .. _@benoitc: http://twitter.com/#!/benoitc


4. **What was the Python blog or website you read the most in 2011?**

   The `Planet Python`_ feed, by far.

   .. _Planet Python: http://planet.python.org/


5. **What are the three top things you want to learn in 2012?**

   * Message passing systems. I've got a Django project that needs to
     get some asynchronicity and I'm planning to explore Celery_ for
     that.

     .. _Celery: http://celeryproject.org/

   * More message passing systems. I've got some devops issues around
     server synchronization and failover that I think I might be able
     to address with ZeroMQ_.

     .. _ZeroMQ: http://www.zeromq.org/

   * Python 3. Because it's time! Most of the libraries that I use
     have already been ported, so the transition shouldn't be
     overwhelmingly difficult, and perhaps I can lend a hand porting
     some of the libraries that I need that haven't made the jump yet.


6. **What are the top software, app or lib you wish someone would
   write in 2012?**

   I wish there were more open source libraries and applications in
   the home automation realm. One of my first personal Python projects
   was a wrapper around heyu_ to make our house look lived in when we
   are away. It's still working okay after nearly 6 years, but the X10
   hardware it interfaces with is getting rather long in the
   tooth. Sadly, newer home automation hardware and protocols seem to
   be mired in the muck of "vendor associations" that only pay lip
   service to openness.

   .. _heyu: http://www.heyu.org/

Want to do your own list ? here’s how:

* copy-paste the questions and answer to them in your blog
* tweet it with the `#2012pythonmeme`_ hashtag

.. _#2012pythonmeme: http://twitter.com/#!/search/%232012pythonmeme
